---
layout: post
title:      "My journey to becoming a software engineer. A winding road full of twists."
date:       2020-03-15 02:00:04 +0000
permalink:  my_journey_to_becoming_a_software_engineer_a_winding_road_full_of_twists
---



In my head, becoming a master of finance was a great idea. The influence of my family's entrepreneurial and go-getter attitude evident to all who knew me well. The pressure was on to be great - especially since I wasn't going to be a lawyer or a doctor. It might have been okay to be subpar at that - to my family, in anycase. I started high school taking entrepreneurship, accounting, and finance classe. Yeah, those are actual electives, I promise. I was on a great path. I graduated with high honors and a strong sense of purpose. Then, I got to college. It would be an understatement to say that I was not enthusiastic about a finance major in a short amount of time. I didn't like learning that I had to take Calculus 2, even though real accountants only really need a 5th grade level of mathmatic understanding. Btw, my accounting teacher told me that - it could very well be b######t. Nevertheless, it fueled the quick fall from "I can't wait to be this" to "This couldn't have been my idea". Soon, there was depression, rebellion, and a general lack of care in the world. Then, my mom said, "Why don't you look at a career in tech? I've heard there are lots of jobs and not a lot of people going after them". My ears perked up. If there is one thing I love more than anything else in the world, that's also a bit vain, is the idea of being part of the few. I love to be unique, or at least one of a few number of people doing something. The thrill of innovation, maybe. The job security, definetly. The undercover artistic expression, most definetly. Mr. Robot? Absolutely. I started to read articles and look up salaries. Within minutes, I saw a bright light, and proceeded to walk towards it. First, I tried to go the traditional "four year institution" route. Soon, though, it became a tiresome and expensive path - especially because I paid out of pocket..no loans and too lazy to fill out scholarship applications. Years passed, frustration persisted. One glorious day, maybe it was a Tuesday and maybe it wasn't, I got on Instagram. Thanks to the great thing called "algorithms" and our electronic devices stalking us, I saw an ad on Instagram for Career Karma. For those of you that have yet heard of Career Karma, it is an app created by three genious and shockingly friendly men who wanted to help other people dip a toe or jump headfirst into the tech pool. It all depends on your interests. I wanted to jump headfirst, especially because I was tired of not already being where I felt I belonged. I sifted through 6 bootcamps, got into 6.5 bootcamps, and then I ultimately chose Flatiron School. Sometimes we might see being delayed or taking detours as terrible things, however, we might need to adjust our perspective. I did. I realized that unlike many people, I've taken the time to discover what career I would truly be happy persuing. No regrets, just excitement about the possibilities. I hope you are too. Also, shout out to all the immigrants who got the doctor or lawyer joke, especially if you're Nigerian like me. Thanks for stopping by.
